\# Abhiram Suriyanarayanan

\*\*(984) 382-9443 \| asuriya@ncsu.edu \| \[LinkedIn:
abhiram-suriyanarayanan-844b1a19b\](https://www.linkedin.com/in/abhiram-suriyanarayanan-844b1a19b/)\*\*

\-\--

\## Education

\### North Carolina State University \*\*Master of Science, Computer
Engineering\*\* \*Aug 2024 -- May 2026\* \*\*GPA:\*\* 4.0/4.0
\*\*Coursework:\*\* ASIC and FPGA Design using Verilog, ASIC
Verification, Architecture of Parallel Computers, Microprocessor
Architecture, Embedded Systems Architecture, Compiler Optimization and
Scheduling.

\### Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham \*\*Bachelor of Technology, Electrical
and Electronics Engineering\*\* \*Jun 2018 -- Jun 2022\*

\-\--

\## Technical Skills

\- \*\*Technical:\*\* SystemVerilog, Digital FSM Design, Hardware
Simulation, Synopsys, Python, MATLAB, C++, C Programming, Embedded
Systems, Embedded C, LabVIEW, NI-TestStand. - \*\*Project
Management:\*\* Azure DevOps, Agile methodologies, Software Development
Life Cycle (SDLC).

\-\--

\## Project Experience

\### Hardware-Based Transformer with Scaled Dot-Product Attention in
Verilog \[\[Git\](#)\] - Designed and implemented a Transformer model in
Verilog for NLP tasks, integrating components such as self-attention,
multi-head attention, positional encoding, and embedding mechanisms.  -
Developed Scaled Dot-Product Attention by calculating and optimizing
query, key, and value matrices for efficient processing. - Utilized SRAM
for matrix storage and computation, enhancing processing speed and
effectively managing large data sets within a Verilog-based hardware
design.

\### Cache and Memory Hierarchy Design Simulator with Stream Buffer
\[\[Git\](#)\] - Developed a cache and memory hierarchy simulator with
L1 and L2 (n-way associative) caches, implementing a least recently used
(LRU) replacement policy and a write-back, write-allocate strategy. -
Integrated a prefetch unit to proactively fetch data, significantly
reducing cache misses and improving system throughput under diverse
workloads. - Analyzed miss rate and average access time trends by
adjusting cache parameters across various configurations to optimize
system behavior.

\### Implementation of a Hybrid Branch Predictor Simulator with Bimodal
and Gshare Components \[\[Git\](#)\] - Developed a comprehensive
simulator for Bimodal, Gshare, and Hybrid branch predictors in C++,
enabling in-depth performance analysis across different predictor
models. - Conducted extensive testing by varying bit widths to observe
their impact on misprediction rates and overall prediction accuracy. -
Analyzed the misprediction patterns for each predictor type to determine
the most effective configurations, providing insights into the
trade-offs between predictor complexity and accuracy for optimized
branch prediction.

\### Simulator for Out-of-Order Superscalar Processor with Dynamic
Scheduling \[\[Git\](#)\] - Developed a cycle-accurate simulator for an
out-of-order superscalar processor, focusing on dynamic scheduling while
assuming perfect caches and branch prediction for streamlined
performance analysis. - Implemented detailed modeling of each pipeline
stage, handling instruction fetch, decode, issue, and execution to track
precise instruction timing and simulate complex processor behavior.

\-\--

\## Professional Experience

\### Soliton Technologies, Project Engineer / Contract Software Engineer
(3M) \*Jun 2022 -- Apr 2024\*  - Singlehandedly managed the entire
lifecycle of four LabVIEW-based automation plugins for the 3M CRPL team,
from requirement gathering and planning to development, debugging, and
delivery. - Integrated TCP/IP protocol for DUT interfacing and
seamlessly incorporated the plugins into the existing framework, earning
a perfect 5/5 customer satisfaction rating. - Developed an application
in LabVIEW to simulate I2C communication, acting as an I2C Master to
transmit and receive commands using NI DIO, with support for
configurable clock frequency, addressing modes, and voltage levels. -
Led agile projects using Scrum, including daily stand-ups and sprint
planning, to deliver high-quality automation plugins on schedule with
clear communication and efficient task allocation.

\### Dextroware Devices, Product Intern \*Jun 2021 -- Aug 2021\*  -
Spearheaded the development of the OTA firmware update module, enabling
remote device updates, which reduced device maintenance time by 40% and
minimized user downtime. - Engineered an efficient battery tracking
system with interrupt-based monitoring, achieving over 95% accuracy and
extending device operation by 20%. - Enhanced power management by
integrating the Coulomb Counter with power-saving algorithms, reducing
power consumption by 15% and significantly improving device lifespan on
a single charge, thereby reducing the need for frequent recharges.
